Hello, and welcome to this lesson on Amazon EC2 auto scaling.
Now there are a few different types of auto scaling you can do auto scaling with Dynamo DB tables,
Amazon Elastic Container Service X as well.
Here we're specifically looking at Amazon EC2 auto scaling.
So this is a way that we can horizontally scale.
Alas, Stickley are two instances.
So let's have a look at a diagram to start with.
So here we've created what's called an auto scaling group, and within that group, we have a few easy
two instances that have been launched.
In this case, the instances are in public subnets, in multiple availability zones.
When you specify multiple Azeez for you auto scaling group, the auto scaling service will generally
try and spread your instances evenly across those availability zones.
As you know, there's different types of monitoring happening with EC2.
We've got status checks that are getting sent to Cloud Watch, and then we also have the metrics from
the two instances themselves.
Now, let's say, for example, that we have these four instances and one of them has a failure of some
status checks.
What's going to happen is the auto scaling group is going to know that and it's going to automatically
replace that instance.
In another example, we might have our metrics being sent from instances to cloud watch.
And in this case, the aggregate CPU across all instances has exceeded 80 percent.
And we might have an alarm that gets triggered, which is looking for whenever the CPU goes above 80
and it's going to tell the auto scaling group through cloud watch.
So then launch an additional instance.
So auto scaling can respond dynamically to what's happening with our application when we're under heavy
load.
It can add additional instances when something fails, they can get replaced and when the load reduces
on our application, it can automatically terminate additional instances to save you money.
So easy to auto scaling is primarily associated with launching and terminating instances.
Dynamically, it's scaling horizontally.
So this is scaling out and scaling back in again.
It provides elasticity and scalability elastic because it not only launches your instances when you
need more instances to service the load on your application, but it will then terminate them when they
no longer needed again.
Auto scaling responds to active status checks, as well as cloud watch metrics.
And with those cloud watch metrics, you can scale based on the performance of your application or even
on a schedule as well.
We use something called a scaling policy and that defines how to respond to those changes in demand.
As you saw before, we had an auto scaling group and within that auto scaling group.
We then had our instances.
So the actual auto scaling group is the collection of two instances that are managed together.
So what do we need to configure and launch an auto scaling group?
Well, firstly, we use something called a launch template.
This is used to specify the configuration of the instances that will be launched within the ISG and
has quite a lot of different attributes you can define in the launch template.
You can see them here.
Things like the am-I and the instance type the EBS volumes you want to attach what security groups to
use, what keeper, et cetera.
So these are the different attributes you can configure, and we'll see this in the hands on.
Another option is something called a launch config.
Now, the launch config has fewer attributes that you can specify.
And essentially, these are being replaced by launch templates.
So for all hands on, we're just going to stick to using launch templates, and they seem to come up
more often and exam questions these days as well.
Now we need a launch template or a launch config before we can create RSG.
Once we have those, we can start the process of creating the ISG.
We can figure out our purchase options, like on demand versus what we can configure the VPC that we
want our auto scaling group to be deployed in.
And note that and also scanning group does not span the pieces.
It's always within the APC and then you can specify the subnets.
Again, this is all within a PPC, which means it's within a region.
Optionally, you can then attach a load balancer, an application load balancer, a network load balancer
or even a classic load balancer.
And we'll see how to do this and hands on as well.
We can also configure health checks.
The auto scanning group is responding to this information.
It knows then when the instance becomes unhealthy and is able to terminate it and launch a replacement
now by default to health checks are defined.
So then it's looking at the system status checks for LP.
This is an additional health check, and this means that we're responding in our auto scaling group
based on.
The health status that's reported by an elastic load balancer and then you define your group size,
how many instances you want to run and scathing policies, how are we going to respond to things like
performance metrics and how we want to scale our application?
Or perhaps we want to scale on a schedule instead?
So let's look at those health checks.
Firstly, we have the easy to status checks I just mentioned this is looking at EC2 and reporting the
health status of the instance, and that's by default, that's enabled.
We then have LP.
This uses the LP health checks and as always, in addition to the EC2 status checks.
And it's recommended if you have an LP that you do enable this option.
And the reason for that is you want to make sure there's not a mismatch.
For example, if the application load balancer thinks that a target is healthy, it's going to forward
the connection to that target.
But maybe the actual target itself has failed an active status check or vice versa.
So by using both health checks, you're gathering more information about the health status of that instance.
We then have the health check grace period.
This is a period of time to wait before checking the health status of the instance.
So we might not one, for instance, to become healthy.
And so we've finished installing some software or performing some kind of configuration.
Otherwise, it might start receiving connections when it's not ready.
Also, scanning will not respond or act on health checks until this period expires as well, so it's
not going to terminate or launch instances.
Moving on to monitoring, we have something called group metrics, and these are about the ACG.
So its data points about the auto scaling group itself, and you can enable the group metrics when you
create your auto scanning group or afterwards.
You get your metrics delivered to cloud watch in one minute granularity and there's no actual additional
charge.
You have to go in and manually enable group metrics.
Then we have basic monitoring.
Now this is for the instances themselves.
So this is the instances individually sending metrics to Amazon Cloud Watch with basic monitoring.
This is with a five minute granularity.
There's no charge.
Then we have detailed monitoring.
Again, this is instances sending metrics to cloud watch, but with a one minute granularity and you
do have to pay a fee for that.
There's a few more scaling settings to know about.
Firstly, we have cooldowns.
These are used with simple screening policies, and it's all about preventing the auto scanning group
from taking any further action before the effects of previous activities are visible.
Default is five minutes.
A termination policy is used to determine which instance should be terminated first when a scale in
event happens.
So when we scale in, we need to terminate instances and it's about choosing which ones.
And as a few different policies, I'll show you a link to more information when we're in the hands on
because it is useful to understand these a basic level termination protection can also be enabled.
This prevents auto scaling from terminating specific instances so you can protect your instances and
make sure that auto scanning is not going to terminate them when an instance is actually in operation
within an auto scanning group.
It's in the in-service state.
You can also put it into what's called a standby state, and that gives you the opportunity to then
update or troubleshoot the instance without worrying about it being terminated.
And then lastly, we have something called lifecycle hooks.
These are used to perform custom actions.
You can pause your instances as the ASG launches them or terminates them.
Let's have a look at a couple of use cases.
Firstly, you might want to run a script to download and install some software as the instance is launching,
but you're not sure exactly how long it's going to take.
So maybe that health check grace period is hard to really quantify how long it should be.
So what you do instead is you use lifecycle hooks to post the instance until they receive a confirmation
from your script or maybe your lambda function that says that, yes, the process is completed of updating
this instance, installing software, configuring it, whatever.
So now you can continue to launch the instance and put it into service.
Another example is you might want to pause an instance to process and data before it's scaled in.
So the instance is going to be terminated.
But you want to pull off some log files or some data that's being written there before it gets deleted.
And you can see a diagram here of the workflow for using lifecycle hooks.
That was quite a lot of very packs into this lesson, and in the next lesson, we're going to do a hands
on where we're going to create a launch template and an auto scanning group.